Eye movement detected.
What is 2 plus 2?
Incorrect.
Cognition assessment.
What is 2 plus 2?
Incorrect.
You have been in an induced panic.
You may experience memory loss.
Difficulty speaking.
Body movement detected.
For your own safety. please return to the
medical platform.
Please remember. muscle function has not
yet been restored.
People!
Where am I?
Why is there an atomic resolution scanning
electron microscope?
Why do I know that?
Am I smart?
Hello?
No.
Can I speak to the person in charge?
The captain.
Captain Yao Li Jai.
Deceased.
Yeah.
Where are the living people?
Dr. Ryland Grace.
End of manifest.
I can't be the only person here. right?
Pilot detected.
No!
Not the pilot.
Call Houston.
Unknown command.
Operation Go Home. in effect.
Invalid operation.
That's the sun.
There It is.
So. what are we. like Neptune-ish?
Let's crank up the radio and call Earth.
Current transmission time to Earth is 11
years. 10 months. 14 days. and 6 hours.
No.
Nope!
You're wrong.
I need a map.
Uh. that's really far.
Uh.
that's not our sun.
That's not our sun.
Is the fuel.
We are just minutes away from the fuel
station.
We're going to fly by through the Petrova.
Line near Venus. so what can
you tell us about the ArcLight probe?
What do we expect to find?
The image we see will be coming from the
onboard microscope.
Sorry. I have to go now.
The sound waves are physical and at
different frequencies they make different
patterns Olivia. can you help me out?
There we go.
Are they really eating the sun?
The space dots?
That is a great question. Rekha.
And I'D be curious what your parents think
about that.
I'm not sure It should come from me.
Hey. who wants to play a game of...
Vegas Lava?
Lava!
What is the speed-up line. Olivia?
Uh... It's melting your hands. Olivia!
186.000 miles per second!
Oh!
Give her a round of applause.
That is awesome.
What is the Petrova Line?
Pass.
You can't pass.
Lava!
Two years ago. a radio telescope
enthusiast named Marina Petrova.
she noticed that there was a streak of
infrared light from the sun to Venus.
And that is now known
as the Petrova Line.
That's It.
That's the dots?
They think so.
What dots?
These dots.
They sent a probe up to the Petrova Line.
and this is what they found.
Are they eating the sun?
They seem to be dimming the sun.
A tiny. teeny. weeny little bit.
So no big whoop.
It's a small whoop.
It's a small to medium whoop.
Over the next 30 years. the Earth could
cool maybe 10 to 15 degrees.
So It is a big whoop.
I heard that all the crops will die.
the economy will free fall. and
half the Earth will die of starvation.
Well... We're all gonna die.
Yeah. that's true.
You're forgetting something.
Guys. guys. that's if that were to happen.
Right?
They're gonna figure this out.
Right now.
The best minds in the entire world are on
It.
With no way to hold my head and my skin
didn't hurt.
Good morning. Dr. Grace.
And the beer I had for breakfast wasn't
bad.
So I had one more for dessert.
Then I headed back for
home and somewhere
far away a lonely bell was ringing.
And It echoed through the canyons like the
disappearing dream.
Yesterday.
On the Sunday morning sidewalks wishing.
Lord. that I was stoned.
Cause there's something in a Sunday that
makes a body feel alone.
There's nothing short of dying.
Half as lonesome as It sounds.
On the sleeping city sidewalks.
Sunday morning coming...
Knock. knock.
Who's there?
Not good at jokes.
Not good at jokes who?
Dr. Grace.
Maybe.
Eva Stratton with the
Petrova Task Force.
I need your help.
Me.
Did you write this?
Oh.
I'm interested in this section here.
Page 31.
The Goldilocks Zone is for idiots.
Why everyone is wrong about life.
That was a long time ago.
Do you stand by what you wrote?
I was fired for standing by what I wrote.
You were fired for calling the leading
scholar in your field a stacker.
You were fired for delivering waste of
carbon at the UNESCO
conference in Denmark.
You heard about that. huh?
Look. I don't know what this is.
but I think that's lava.
It's not.
Okay.
No one in your field wants anything to do
with you because you
refuse to back down
from a very unpopular
view and I can give
you a chance to prove them all wrong.
That's Kevin Noe running.
I'm not.
Joke's on them because
I don't even care.
So...
I think you do care.
You're just running away because you're
scared.
No. no. no.
Do you still believe water is unnecessary
for life to evolve?
Uh...
Look. there is nothing magical about
hydrogen and oxygen.
Water is required for life on Earth.
Sure. but a completely different planet
might have completely
different conditions.
I don't know why that
makes me such a nut.
I need you to come with us.
Sorry. I didn't catch your name.
Carl.
Hi.
Carl. hi.
Dr. Grace. for trouble line samples
splashed down last night. I want you to
tell me what they are. how they work.
I am a teacher at
Grover Cleveland Middle.
And you have a doctorate in molecular
biology.
And I ride a bike to work.
And. uh. It's not for exercise.
so I'm sure there are thousands of other
people... It survives on
the surface of the sun.
Does that sound like a water-based life
form to you?
The sun's really dying. isn't It?
Yeah.
Is all of this...
necessary?
Yes.
Please analyze the patrol sample.
Um...
Just one thing.
The entire room is filled with argon.
Just try not to rip your suit.
Uh...
Am I expendable?
Is that why you want me?
That's not the only reason.
It's almost like you don't care if I die.
Hold on. you have to talk about It?
The consensus here is that It would be
preferable if you did not die.
Thanks. guys.
Oh.
Welcome to Earth.
Are they alive?
They're moving.
So they're alive.
They're mov... Yes. they're moving.
but they're...
That could be for many reasons.
I'm... What are they made of?
It's gonna take a long ti...
It took. like. 200 years to figure out how
bacteria work. so...
Please do It faster.
I'm just going through the whole light
spectrum here.
Wow!
You're not gonna believe this.
Nothing happened.
I can't see into these buggers.
Amazing.
X-rays. microwaves. gamma rays.
visible light.
Nothing.
Ooh. ooh. ooh. ooh.
I've been dying to do this all day.
It's a cell!
It's a cell?
Wake up. It's a cell!
It's a tiny alien cell.
Guys.
I've lost... Guys!
This is first contact...
with life... ...outside of the...
Uh-oh.
Oh. It died.
What?
This is great news.
Now we can find out
what they're made of.
You guys fired up?
Yes!
Right?
Carbon.
Oxygen.
Hydrogen.
Oh.
It's made...
almost entirely...
of water.
All right.
Sorry if I overreacted in there.
Just realizing I was wrong about the only
original idea I ever had.
Yeah.
What else did you learn?
They give off infrared light when they
move.
Like. so much.
I don't know how they store all that
energy.
But... their wavelength is
exactly the Petrova frequency.
Their light is how they move?
Yeah. they consume the sun's energy and
then they expel It for propulsion.
They toot to scoot. basically.
Why did It go to Venus?
I don't know.
Okay.
We'll tell you.
What?
I have 347 other biologists in 21
countries mobilizing as we speak.
So. thank you for your help.
I'm glad you didn't die.
Let's pack this up.
That's It?
That's It. Carl?
Talk to her.
You just... you're taking all this stuff?
At the school you said there were
thousands of people
more qualified than you. so.
...
I was being modest.
I don't need modest.
I need people who think they're right
when everyone else
thinks they're wrong.
I need people who piss other people off.
That's me.
Do you want to be on a project?
If you...
If you think I can help.
then... Just answer the question.
I want to help the world.
I left you three dots.
Just three. huh?
That's the one you killed.
I would take the three.
Yes?
I'll take the dots.
Get to work. Dr. Grace.
The world is counting on you.
Hey. Carl.
Imagine for a second that you're an
interstellar microorganism.
I'm not doing that.
Why would you leave the sun and go to
Venus?
Why not stop at Mercury?
It's closer.
Maybe fresh air.
Venus's atmosphere is mostly CO2.
Maybe that's fresh air to them.
You don't know what this little space
dot's like?
Hey. Carl...
Do we have any experts of color?
We don't.
But I do.
The name of the dance We do down
Johannesburg way I
got something for you.
Thank you.
Do you have a coupon?
We don't need a coupon.
We're the government.
Which government?
All of them.
So this box is Venus.
The box is Venus.
It's set to emit the same infrared light
frequency as Venus' CO2 atmosphere.
So if the dots move when you turn the
lights on.
that means they're looking for CO2.
Thus proving the Carl hypothesis.
Sick.
Alright.
Uh oh.
Why are you saying uh oh?
The astrophage moved off the slide.
Huh?
We lost them.
What do you mean we lost them?
Go get them.
If I open the door and the light.
they're gonna escape and
then we'll lose them forever.
At least now they're in the box.
So we're gonna just turn the lights off?
There'll still be light.
It's gotta be total darkness.
Okay. so just put this box in another box.
I can hear you.
Entering phase two.
Please report.
Over.
There's one.
There's two!
Come on.
Get the third one.
Got samples for you.
The three musketeers.
The three stooges.
Uh oh.
What?
Why are you sitting down?
You know I'm standing like a grown man.
Cause there's a force.
What?
We're fathers. Carl.
Now I'm sitting down.
Strat?
Carl and I made a baby.
What?
We figured out how astrophates breeds.
Don't move.
Wheels up.
You know. Carl. when Strat
said she was sending... Jet!
I thought you meant like a PJ or
something.
I know you do.
I know.
So... Take this.
It's been a long time since I've taken a
pill from a stranger
without knowing what It was.
Dr.
Grace. how was your flight?
Where are we?
The ocean.
The astrophage reproduction.
Can you do It at scale?
Oh.
In theory.
You just get a bunch of elbow-shaped pipe.
put sunlight in one end.
Excuse me for a second.
Write It down.
And IR light and CO2 in the other.
Repeat.
Anything else you need for that?
Just some water.
He gave me a pill and It's still in my
throat.
Two fancy coffees?
Thank you so much.
Water for him.
Or coffee.
That's...
I need both.
Or not.
Okay. so this is kind of a tough room.
So don't take It personally.
See. as long as there's a bed and a
shower. I'm good.
I'm sober.
Everyone. this is Dr.
Ryland Grace from the United States.
Please go here.
Thank you.
And he figured out how to breed
astrophage.
How did you do It?
How long does the process take?
Does It reproduce by mitosis or meiosis?
What is incubation period?
Carl and I made a mini-Venus out of a
plywood box.
And as soon as the
samples recognized the
spectral signature of CO2. they were...
They were like. whoop. there It is.
Okay.
Whoop. there It is.
You can sit down.
While your experiment was crude and
clumsy. our scientists
have replicated his results.
Sorry. how did you seal It?
How did you... Re-estimate
an eight-day doubling time.
Under optimal conditions.
Dr. Grace is right.
Oh.
It is the CO2.
That's why they're going to Venus.
You say It for everyone.
So that's why they're...
That's why they're going to Venus is what
Dr. Grace wants to say.
They're going to breed.
Whoop. there It is.
I really like him.
How long to make two million kilograms?
Two million?
Two million is... Why on earth would
you need that much astrophage?
Nobody told him.
He has no clearance.
Stand up. Dr. Grace.
Stand up.
I hereby Grant you
top secret clearance to
all information pertaining
to Project Hail Mary.
What's Project Hail Mary?
All right.
The sun is not the only star dying.
There is a clear pattern of infection.
Every star was infected by its neighbor
except one.
Tau Ceti?
Tau Ceti. that's right.
11.9 light years away.
It is uninfected despite being well within
the cluster of infected stars.
Why?
Tell him.
We don't know!
Which is why we decided to build a ship to
go there and find out.
It's 11.9 light years away.
You can't just build an interstellar ship.
Oh. yeah. we can.
The ship is not really the problem.
The energy required to power the ship is
the problem.
Was the problem.
The astrophage is the fuel.
Provided we can make enough of It.
And for that. we need you. my friend.
Me?
Ooh. those little guys store a lot of
energy.
One mistake and that much astrophage could
vaporize California.
That's true.
Which is why you now live on a boat in the
middle of the ocean in California.
I live on a boat?
You do.
So you want to build a near-light-speed
spaceship. have It travel further than any
human-made object has ever traveled.
and visit a star just to see what's up?
Yeah.
And then what?
There won't be enough fuel for a round
trip. so they send their
findings back to Earth on probes.
And the astronauts... die in space?
Yes.
Any other plans you've thought of?
Anything else?
Anything else you're kicking around?
There are infinite possibilities for this
to go wrong.
It almost certainly won't work.
It's what you Americans would call a long
shot.
Hail Mary.
I get It.
The alternative is to just do nothing.
And to starve and to kill each other and
watch everything on
this planet go extinct.
Including us.
So...
That's a long time to be in space.
Maybe in comas for most of It.
But is that even safe?
Nothing about this is safe.
We only need three.
A pilot. an engineer. and a scientist.
Commander Yao.
I must have known you.
Thank you. but I just don't remember.
You make a funny face in literally...
every picture.
You must have been very smart...
and strong...
and brave.
Ilyukhna...
first. I owe you three bags of vodka.
You seem to have had a lot of friends.
This picture of you... what looks
like sneaking into the Kremlin...
is...
legendary.
I wish you were still here.
I wish I wasn't alone.
I wish I was...
doing a better job.
You were
both very loved.
You deserve much more than this.
I'll do my best... to make
sure that you don't...
you know... that you didn't.
I'll do my best.
Approaching Tau-30 orbit.
Prepare for engine cut off.
14... 13... 12...
11... 10...
icopting pirates detected.
I'm not a pilot!
What happened to T fruits grid?
You
are now orbiting Tau-30.
Fudging!
Petrovus scope operational.
1...
It's a Tau-30.
You have a Petrova line.
But you're not dimming.
Why?
Blip A detected.
What's a blip A?
Nope. nope. nope. nope. nope.
Let's go.
Let's go. Mary!
No. no. no. no. no. no. no!
Pilot detected!
Please engage restraint.
Pilot detected.
We're getting out of here.
Engage spin drive.
Correct.
Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa!
Welcome to the Hail Mary.
Is It this thing?
Erratic maneuver detected.
Yup!
Blip A detected.
What do they want?
What?
It's sending me something.
It could be a message.
It could be a bomb.
Shields up!
There are no shields on board the Hail
Mary.
Why not?
30 meters.
Well. I guess there's nag on both our
faces. huh. Mary?
What's that?
Why is It moving so much slower than the
last one?
They think I'm dumb.
If we were gonna catch It. what would we
do?
Would you like to go on a spacewalk.
Dr. Grace?
To begin your spacewalk. put on
your Lea suit and proceed to the.
...
It's. uh. just crazy.
Righty-tighty-lefty-loosey.
Xenon's aghast.
I think this thing's broken.
We need the equipment to analyze the
astrophage at our setting.
Right. Dr. Grace?
Most of this equipment won't work in zero
gravity.
And we have a team to develop and build
zero gravity versions of this equipment.
We would need years for that. and we have
months.
What's the alternative?
We make gravity.
Centrifuge?
Centrifuge.
They. uh. used them to make butter during
the Civil War. actually.
Fun.
Fun fact.
Still Xenon.
Up is down. left is right. Xenons are
solid. aliens are real.
I'm wrong about everything. and
everything's wrong.
Lefty-tighty-righty-loosey.
I mean... Oh. no!
Foreign presence detected.
You're
a long way from home.
Is that me?
My ship?
I don't understand.
Do you want me to go back in my ship?
But I just got here.
Oh.
Okay.
I'll talk to you later.
Bye.
Thank you. Mary.
What?
Oh my.
This is new.
Anybody home?
I like what you've done with the gravity.
I made you a ship.
With ramen.
I only made one.
I'm...
not sure how many of you there are.
Hi.
No. no. no. no.
I'm sorry.
You scared me when you went...
Wow.
I can't seem to see your face.
Mysterious.
Your faces are overrated.
You like tapping. huh?
This is fun.
You're pointing.
You're not tapping.
Sorry.
Another present.
I don't have one of these.
I love It.
Thank you.
Do I put this on my head?
Take off my head?
Take my helmet off?
No.
What's this?
It's a big ask.
It'll...
That's a big ask.
Oh.
This is taking a turn.
Thank you for the... what
I hope is not handcuffs.
And I'm sorry about the whole helmet
thing.
Unfortunately. I need oxygen to breathe.
so...
Two rings of eight.
Oh. two.
You little rascal.
This is oxygen.
I still don't think I can do It though. sorry.
If I'm wrong. I'm really wrong.
It's the Petrova line.
We're here for the same reason.
You have a Petrova line problem too.
You need to solve It.
I need to solve It.
That's why you made me this.
I'm gonna take that as a yes.
We're gonna save our planets.
We have to learn how to communicate.
You know. they say math is the universal
language.
I thought maybe we find out if that's true.
You see the numbers?
Oh. you want this?
Whoa!
Crispus Eve. that is.
It's really hot in there.
Is that ammonia?
Anyway. that's... Look. see the numbers?
They're on the other side.
Do It again.
If you do It again and you... Don't let It
snap back.
So don't do It.
Don't do It.
Hold It like that.
And you look.
Wow.
How about something else?
Look at this.
Clock.
We both have time. right?
These are the hands and these are the
numbers.
One. two. three.
They point to the numbers.
And if you'll notice. there's numbers
there and there's also numbers here.
Okay.
It is dark.
I got an idea.
Wait.
Don't... Yeah.
Don't go anywhere.
Stay.
Oh.
Oh. yeah.
I'm Grace.
I'm going to call you Rocky.
You know. because you look like a giant
rock.
Oh.
I'm fine.
Echolocation. right?
You need surfaces to see.
Try this.
You see the numbers?
What is that?
Is that good?
Jazz hands means good?
We do this.
Your version of this is our thumbs up.
No. that's thumbs down.
We do the thumbs up.
It's close enough.
You want me to wait?
I wait?
Yeah.
No.
I'm really. uh... I'm really. uh...
Really excited to be working with you on
this.
Fired up.
I'm sorry I'm talking so much.
It's just I haven't been around anyone in
a long time.
Oh.
What have we got here?
It's a clock.
I showed you a clock and...
And you're showing me a clock.
We're. uh... Clock bros.
It's a clock.
Right.
I got to be honest.
I'm not sure I'm getting all of this.
Check this out.
I thought I might record you.
Oh. no. no.
No. that's okay.
It's just a microphone.
Looks like they say. uh. let's start with
one.
One.
No. no. wait. wait. wait.
Sorry.
Okay.
One.
And... one.
Okay.
So. uh. I met an alien.
And we're learning to communicate through
names.
Okay.
Let's start with you.
Rocky.
You done?
My name. can't wait to hear this.
is Grace.
What's your word for my name?
Go ahead.
You know.
enough to order at restaurants.
We have about 250 words.
My atmosphere would
kill him and his me. but I
like to keep a wall up in
my relationships anyways.
He's a mechanic. I think.
He uses a metal form of xenon.
He can make anything.
Look at this.
I'm calling It Xenonite.
And if I can't understand what he's
saying. which is most of the time.
he puts on a little puppet show for me and
my tiny brain.
And you know what?
I don't mind It.
He's kind of growing on me.
At least not growing in me. you know?
Which was a concern for a little while.
His son is dying. too. so maybe we can
help each other.
Recognize this?
We call It astrophage.
It means star eater.
Astrophage on me.
Star.
Bad. bad. bad. bad. bad. bad. bad.
Yeah.
Same.
Why are you alone?
23.
Wow.
What happened to them?
Sorry.
How did they die?
Oh.
There were three of us and two died on the
way here.
I wish I knew why.
Now It's only me.
Correction.
Deal.
Call It fist bump. by the way.
What's that?
Fist my bump.
No.
It's fist bump.
It's not the same.
Exactly.
The astrophage has to reach Tau Ceti.
otherwise we wouldn't
see the Petrova one.
Ho. ho. ho.
Do we really need this whole model?
Right.
You know. I used to have one of these in
my classroom and It
was a lot simpler to set up.
What's that?
What?
That is a great question.
You know what?
Try this.
Why is a schoolteacher in space?
Question.
No.
You don't like that voice?
I cannot hear It. really.
Scary?
Let's try this.
Oh.
Why is a schoolteacher in space?
Nope.
No need to.
Good. no?
Mmm... Why is a
schoolteacher in space?
I mean... Meryl Streep?
She can do anything.
That's not bad.
I like.
Alright. and in answer to your question.
I have no idea what I'm doing in space.
I don't remember.
It's okay.
Grace find out when Grace go home.
I want to go to sleep.
No understand.
Word.
Sleep?
Just go like this?
No. not die.
Just lay here for 29 minutes.
29.000 seconds and then we...
Wake up.
Oh. understand.
We call this...
Okay. here we go.
Sleep...
Good night. sir.
I watch Grace sleep.
No. that's fine.
That's a little weird.
I'll be good.
Good night.
Not safe.
Viridians must watch sleep.
That's really interesting.
That sounds like something we can unpack
that tomorrow.
Rock. you watch crew many days.
Crew. no.
Wake up.
That's where you're gonna be?
No. It's usually closer.
On your chest.
I wonder if It would work from a little
farther back.
But Grace won't feel
comfortable and safe.
Well. I'm... And look. I'm seeing...
So many sides of you lately.
And It's great.
Right now I'm seeing
the underside of you.
I'm kind of a side sleeper anyway.
Good night.
So. we watch each other sleep.
Viridians don't sleep like a human does.
They seem legitimately paralyzed.
If danger comes. you can't wake up.
It's a survival norm.
Someone has to keep you safe.
Light It up.
Team.
I want you to meet Dr. Ryland Grace.
He is currently the world's leading
authority in astrophage biology.
Dr. Grace. these are the three astronauts
going on the mission and
their backups for redundancy.
Yao. Ilyukna. and Dubois.
Our pilot. engineer. and science officer.
It's an honor.
I'm excited to share what I've learned
about astrophage and spin drives.
We have 1.000 out of 9 of these little
engines that could on
the Hail Mary and uh...
Why does he have to go to war?
I don't know.
Time will tell.
Okay.
You're doing great.
Once the mission is complete. we have
the option to end our lives on our terms.
The alternative is slow. miserable death
by starvation.
I want to do a lethal injection with a
little bit of heroin.
I will have what she's having.
Following on from Dr. Grace's discovery.
we've built an IR emitter set to the
wavelength of CO2 which attracts the
astrophage to this revolver face.
The drive then rotates outwards.
We increase the IR. the astrophage get
excited. thrust the ship forward.
and so on. and so on.
This is less than a
gram of astrophage but
we only need a fraction of this for this
demonstration. if you want to take a look.
To do what?
To melt a metric ton of metal.
Powerful stuff.
Commander Yao. I really appreciate what
you all are doing.
You would do the same.
I would choose just not to go at all.
I don't have the bravery that you all
have. trust me.
It's not a gene.
You just need to find someone to be brave
for.
Hi. Grace.
You're in a ball.
So. Rocky. Nodai.
and Grace. atmosphere.
I come up.
Oh. you're coming up.
Detective.
Grace and Rocky. big science.
How to kill astrophage together.
I keep going this way?
This room's boring.
Science. save Earth. save Earth.
Good plan.
What's this down here?
Dirty. dirty. dirty.
Why room so messy?
Well. I wasn't expecting company. was I?
Is this room for garbage?
No. this is the lab.
This is where the science happens.
What's this?
That is the disco ball.
That makes me happy.
Rocky will build a workshop here.
We'll need much room for Rocky and much
less space for Grace.
What is happening here?
We go Petrova Line.
we collect astrophage.
we study It. we go home.
we collect. we save Earth.
And when you say we. uh. where?
I see Grace!
Enough.
Rocky. stay.
Rocky. my hand is up.
We can't just show up in a space ball
unannounced and move into
someone else's spaceship. right?
There has to be boundaries.
Boundaries.
We have one mission.
Mission?
But we're two distinct individuals.
Individuals.
Both working on our distinct individual
parts of that mission.
Mission?
Separately.
Okay.
Where are my bedrooms?
Bedrooms?
For what?
So I have a new roommate now.
Be careful back there. okay?
The tour wheel is pretty lopsided.
Where on Earth does that go?
Not on Earth.
More high.
It goes this way?
Wall.
All the way out to here?
Yes.
Out pointy.
What?
He tells me what to do.
He tells me why to do It.
He tells me how to do It.
He tells me when to do It.
And then when I do It. he's like.
what are you doing?
I'm just saying you're gonna get out of
the ball to get into a much bigger ball?
Yes. for sleeping.
Why?
You don't even use a bed.
You have the. like. Hellraiser thing that
you sleep on.
What do you need a bed for?
Gonna be angry. stupid.
How long since last sleep?
Don't talk to Armando.
Yes.
Can I help you?
You're doing this.
It's a lot of this.
And then he's like. no understand.
no understand.
And then It's like...
I need a word.
You know what the word is?
Bossy.
I'm like one of the villains in the
Superman movie.
I'm just. like. trapped in hell.
Get me out of here!
His eating habits are...
exotic.
Grace looks disgust when eat.
How do you look when you eat?
It look beautiful.
Show me.
Oh my God.
He has incredible hearing.
He can see through walls.
Personal space is at a premium.
Who is Grace talking to?
Question.
There's no way you
can hear me right now.
Can hear.
Who are you talking to?
You can hear this.
Yes.
Grace say you can hear this.
Oh my God.
Look at this.
Look how far away he is.
That is where he is.
Hello. Grace.
He's right here.
Hello. Grace friend.
Okay.
Did Grace find sampler instructions?
Yes. I found the sampler instructions.
He's really smart about some things.
Oh my God. he's got a gun.
Oh. this?
No. no. no.
This to screen in front. and now this to
that over here.
Now Rocky can hear screen.
Please don't point at me.
Oh. point over here.
Yes.
Oh. okay.
Now over there.
You can point at me again.
But his species doesn't know about things
like relativity and radiation.
And the rest of the crew?
And mid of ship.
There.
And here?
And where did you keep the astrophage?
Fuel tanks next to
Rocky workshops there.
I think the radiation is what made your
crew sick. Rock.
The astrophage probably just protected you
from It.
This isn't something that you could have
fixed.
But I guess together we're. you know.
pretty smart.
Since we're only going to be able to
intersect with the patrol line for a few
seconds. we're not going to have enough
time to get a good sample.
Too fast.
Do puppet show.
I don't want to do the puppet show.
No.
Do puppet show.
This is us.
We're. you know. flying along.
The problem is.
because the solar system
is constantly moving. the patrol
line is going to constantly be moving.
Right?
Am I still doing It?
You still want It?
Yes. yes.
It's show time.
So we're not going to have time to get the
sample.
No. no. no.
Use planet gravity to move with line.
You mean sort of like rest in its orbit?
Yes.
I didn't think of that.
I did.
We figured out a plan.
We're going to orbit the planet where
astrophage breeds. collect a sample.
and figure out why It's not eating Tau
Ceti.
Who is Grace talking to?
I'm not talking to anyone.
Break from what?
Oh. my God.
Forget It.
This isn't going to work.
150 million kilometers away.
Racing along at 162
kilometers per second
means we should
arrive at Tau Ceti E at...
Arrival at Tau Ceti E in 11 days.
3 hours and 14 minutes.
Thank you. Mary.
You're welcome. Dr. Grace.
You're welcome. Rocky.
Welcome to Earth.
You are in the mental health mode.
Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa!
Be careful. Rocky.
Look out below.
The beach is always changing.
You could go to the same spot every day.
You're always looking at a different
beach.
Trees.
And you climb. and you climb to the top.
and you can't...
He's so excited about us both getting to
go home.
There's no harm in pretending for a little
while.
Touch the wave. Rocky.
Touching the wave.
Wiping out.
Hanging ten.
What do you got for me?
In three. Apollo trains him.
And in seven. he trains Apollo's kid.
Yeah. yeah.
I say either.
You say either.
I say neither.
You say me either.
No.
I like Earth.
I miss the fog.
What about you. Rock?
What do you miss most about home?
My mate.
Wait. what?
You've got a mate?
Yes.
I mean. not that you... I mean. I'm sure...
What's their name?
Name is...
It's beautiful.
Grace have mate?
Question?
No.
I mean. I did.
But she thought I had my head in the
clouds and I didn't really
want to live in the real world.
She was right.
Anyway. now she's with Mark.
Rocky hate Mark.
But enough about me.
You have a mate.
How long you been together?
186.3 years.
Like the honeymoon phase.
No understand.
That's a joke. Rock.
That's a long time.
You've been together a long time.
It's not enough.
Permission to come aboard. Captain?
You're already aboard.
Did you get your free hat?
Yeah. I kind of bought them.
Oh.
You don't sing. huh?
Yeah. I do.
I actually sang in an eastern German youth
choir.
You're very mysterious.
No. I'm not.
I always wanted to be...
mysterious.
Talk too much.
That's my problem.
Like right now.
I didn't mean to bother you.
You don't bother me.
It's such a weird party.
Is It?
Yao is singing.
Everyone's so happy.
People are hooking up.
And they all know they're gonna die.
Camaraderie helps them.
Doing their job. you know.
Not so much me.
So...
Must be hard having
to ask everybody to...
Actually. It isn't.
Yeah.
So... What do you think?
You think you're gonna pull It off?
What. the whole thing?
Yeah.
God willing.
You believe in God?
It beats the alternative.
So... I hope you're
wearing your best clothes.
You can't drive the door on your way to
the sky.
You look pretty good down here.
But you ain't really good.
Oh...
A bullet.
Let's
stop your crying.
It's a sign of the times.
Yeah.
We gotta get away from here.
Just stop your crying.
It'll be alright.
They told me that the end is near.
We gotta get away from here.
Just stop your crying.
Have the time of your life.
Break into the atmosphere.
And It all looks good from here.
Remember everything will be alright.
We can meet again somewhere.
Somewhere far away from here.
And that is enough now.
Woo hoo!
I wish you could see this rock.
Rocky can see.
Boring.
What?
This is not boring.
Name of planet Tau Ceti E is same name as
star plus E.
Boring.
I guess It could be a little more evocative.
Astrophase sampler in position.
Question?
Yep.
Trays are live looking both ways.
It is time go.
It's time go.
What is Grace doing?
Question?
Having a moment.
You know back on Earth if you discover
something you get to name It.
You were technically the first one here.
Yes.
The name is Medium Rough Texture Circle
Planet.
Okay.
Well if Medium Rough Texture Circle.
Planet was taken we'll
just have a backup.
Maybe go with something personal.
Personal.
What's your mate's name again?
Name is...
It's okay.
I remember.
Need human word for rocky mate.
Adrian.
It's beautiful.
Well that's weird.
What?
It's the same amount.
Both coming and going.
But if Astrophase going to Adrian to breed
there should be more leaving.
It should be double.
It doesn't make sense.
It's either not reproducing or...
It's not leaving the planet for some
reason.
Oh my god.
What?
What. Gracie?
Question.
Life.
This is not just Astrophage.
It's bacteria.
It's protozoa.
It's like cells on arid.
And Earth.
What does this mean?
Question.
Well...
If there's a whole active biosphere in the.
Petrova line that stands to reason there's
a whole active biosphere on Adrian which
means...
there's life on Adrian.
Oh. Grace.
Grace.
Yeah.
Life.
Life is reason.
Yeah.
You said It. buddy.
No.
If there is some kind of microbial
predator on Adrian. It'll be in the
clouds where Astrophage breathes.
Check.
Oh!
The problem is this ship wasn't built to
go into the atmosphere.
If we get within five kilometers. we'll
be ripped into a million
pieces and then we'll burn up.
Game over.
Game not over.
I make chains.
I make long chains.
I put collection device on end.
Oh yeah. yeah.
Five kilometers of chain. sure.
Guard me!
Like this chain. look.
You can do that?
Yes.
Kind of like fishing.
What's that?
Oh!
Fishing!
Leave It!
It could work.
Thumbs up. baby.
Hello Earth.
Plan is like fishing.
We get very close to
Adrian atmosphere and
lower collector into clouds with chain.
Then Grace go on hull to reel It in.
If ship not at precise angle and speed.
we die.
Example.
We must fly backwards to keep proper
velocity.
Even though Grace still have no pilot
experience.
I've been practicing. haven't I?
More.
No. no. no.
Left.
Be left.
More left.
Imperfect.
No.
Wrong.
Erratic maneuver detected.
Wrong way.
Wrong angle.
Bad. bad. bad.
Good. good. good.
Bad.
Not enough.
Too much.
I'm barely pulling It.
No. It's bad.
Grace Rocky hit.
All Rocky.
Plural.
All.
Earth.
Die.
We die.
Rocky has built predator collector.
Rocky chain spooled and ready.
Ready.
Grace pilot training.
Not as good.
What think. Earth?
Hello?
They can't hear you. pal.
What?
We're not actually talking to Earth.
Earth's too far away.
You know.
we just record these messages
and we tell them what we've learned.
And then when we're done. we'll send them
all back and approve.
Why not you tell them yourself when you
return home?
Question.
Yeah.
This is a one-way ticket for me. pal.
What?
We had enough astrophage to get here.
but not enough to get back.
So what happens. Grace?
Question.
Oh. I've... I got enough food to last me
at least a couple years.
Maybe a couple more if I stretch It out.
So. Grace die?
Question?
Yeah. once... once we're done.
I'm... I'm gonna die.
Why didn't you tell me?
It slipped my mind.
No.
Grace ate Grace go home.
Listen.
No.
I got to meet you.
I got to do all this amazing stuff.
I'm good.
I've made peace with It.
What mean?
What mean make peace?
It means...
I know I'm not going home.
I know why.
And It's okay.
Thumbs up?
No.
Tiny thumbs up?
We got stars to save.
Okay?
Grace?
Yeah?
You are...
Need word.
What word do you need?
To risk self to help another.
Uh. dumb.
Grace?
How much astrophase you need?
Question?
Two million kilograms.
I can give.
I go home six years slower.
That's too much.
Rocky watch crew die.
Could not fix.
Grace say Grace will die.
Rocky fix.
Grace go home.
Okay.
I thought you made peace.
A question?
I didn't mean any of that.
That's just something you say.
Thank you.
Get over here.
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
What?
What's happening?
A hug.
Oh.
Hmm.
It's usually not something one does by
themselves.
Oh.
I.
Oh. wait.
I do the same?
Would you just get in here?
How do you know when the hug is done?
You just feel It.
Oh.
Are you feeling It now?
No.
Oh.
Okay.
Yeah.
We ran the sampler simulation again this
morning.
Shapiro and Dubois nailed It again.
Okay.
What about the others?
They'll be ready.
I expect so.
They have a great teacher.
Can you take a compliment. please?
No.
It's an order.
Okay.
If It's an order. I'll take It.
Thank you.
Good.
What do you think?
It's pretty impressive.
Yeah.
You're.
You're good.
Three days. huh?
Yeah.
So.
What are you gonna do for the next 20
years?
You got a plan?
Huh.
Manual mode activated.
Go.
That's not half bad.
It's all good.
Oh.
Time to go fishing question?
It's now or never.
Probe signal.
Good.
Now comes the fun part.
Wraiths go out on hull to retrieve
collector?
No fun at all.
It's a joke.
Oh.
Humor.
Confusing.
Oh.
You gotta be kidding me.
What problem question?
It's fine.
It's just.
This guy is.
Slithering.
Words of encouragement.
You can't just say
words of encouragement.
Words of great encouragement.
Nope.
Move winch into position.
How long is this supposed to take?
Collector should be here soon.
Yeah.
It's here.
Amaze. amaze. amaze.
Ah!
Careful collector. important.
Yep.
Status update.
Grace is safe.
I'm okay.
Good. good. good.
Come inside with predator collector now.
Must move now.
Go. go.
No. Grace.
Bad idea.
Come inside.
Be there in a minute.
No. no. no. no.
Grace will die.
Can repeat mission.
Can try again later.
I don't think there is going to be a later.
Abort. abort. abort.
Grace will die.
No. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no.
Not dead. so yes.
Good. good. good. good. good. good.
Where is that noise coming from?
Noise is from all around.
It's loudest at port side of bedroom.
Gravity is tearing the ship apart.
We leave now.
Questions?
Leave now.
Uh oh.
Statement.
Warning!
Home landing in big
room below bedroom.
That's the fuel tanks.
Oh. that was not great.
Warning!
Okay. okay. okay.
Everybody. everybody calm down.
Calm down.
Warning!
Try to keep yourself together.
Stop engine now.
I'm not gonna do this.
We need to get into orbit or we'll crash!
I have an idea.
First. no crash.
Then. not explode.
Deal?
Deal!
Hold on.
Now!
Wait!
Did we do It?
There's a hole in It!
At fuel bay!
Question!
Jettison port fuel tank compartment 12
confirmed.
One nanogram of astrophage just isn't
enough to blow up a building.
The port-o-master gave him one milligram
by mistake.
That's a billion times more.
It's the heat energy that they're prepared
for.
A measuring mistake.
Healed my entire science team!
It doesn't matter.
We have to launch.
If we miss the orbital window.
It'll set us back months.
Yeah. but if no one's trained to do the
mission. It won't matter.
Casualty projections go up exponentially
if we delay.
We launch on schedule with a replacement
science officer.
Okay. but...
Who?
I mean. that...
I'm not an astronaut.
I don't need an astronaut.
I need an expert in astrophage who's
mission ready.
I'm not ready.
I don't have any training.
You pick It up.
I'm not an astronaut.
I put the knot in astronaut.
I've never done anything.
I've never done a spacewalk.
I can't even moonwalk.
I haven't done the whole... the pool thing.
No. no. no.
This is just we do for the picture.
For social media.
I'm not heroic in any way.
I get sick on the... on the elevator.
Perfect.
There's no elevator on the ship.
I cannot do this.
You're smart.
You'll figure It out.
This might be very hard for you to
understand.
but some people are failures.
Some people don't rise to the challenge.
You've been present for every major
scientific or strategic meeting
we've had on the mission.
You're missing out an important part of
the mission. which is the suicide part.
Grace. you'D be in very cool company.
If you don't go. you die anyway.
Yeah. but I die in 30 years
with... With the rest of us.
You have no immediate family.
You don't even have a dog.
So. just so I'm clear. you're asking me
right now to...
give up my life.
I am.
We all are.
Can I think about this?
You have three hours.
Detected.
Good morning. Dr. Grace.
I watched you sleep. Pop.
But. uh...
You gotta wake up.
I'm not sure what to do.
I've done everything I can think of.
I made him a heat lamp.
And he left me one last message.
We have our predator.
Right now. I'm calling It Tau Miba.
And I'm sure that when you wake up.
you'll have...
a lot to say about why that's a bad name.
because It's just an
amoeba from Tau Ceti.
and we're putting Tau in front of amoeba.
but...
I would argue there's
an elegance to that.
A simplicity.
Let's not fight about It now.
Let's just... We'll table It. and we'll...
I did a test at different
atmospheric variables.
and. fun fact.
every time I introduced nitrogen...
It died.
And I know you're thinking. well. that's
terrible. because that's a problem.
because we needed to survive in the
conditions of Venus.
Obviously. I had to figure out how to
breed a new strain of
nitrogen-resistant Tau Miba.
And guess what I used?
The breeder tanks that we made with your
Xenonite.
And you know what?
Tsk.
Now we're just a couple
of very cool dudes with
their very own strain of
nitrogen-resistant Tau Miba.
Really. all we have to do now is breed
enough to survive the trip. and you gotta
wake up. because I don't know how to
get your half of the Tau Miba to air It.
So...
no pressure.
But...
we did make a deal.
Grace?
Rock?
What did you do?
Give me a little chance. please.
Hi. Blue.
Did we find Predator?
No is yes.
Maze-a-maze-a-maze.
Rocky breeder tank design.
Good job. bro.
We can go home.
Statement.
Fist my bump.
No.
It's still not right.
I'll do It.
Good. good. good.
So what we do now?
Question?
We party.
Is special clothing for celebration.
You're making me think that I have to.
uh... What?
Up my game.
What is this?
You don't mind?
Rocky. Rocky get one.
Here you go.
It's good.
Oh. yeah.
It's not much.
Just a little something.
Your very own laptop.
My portable earth thinking machine.
With all human knowledge.
Thank you. thank you. thank you.
And just one more thing.
Yes?
What. what's this?
It's earth.
So you can remember me.
Rocky can't forget.
I didn't get you anything.
You gave me everything.
But if I were to give you something...
It'D be pretty cool to see your shirt.
I understand that you think I'm the right
person for this mission. but I
can't do It.
I can't do It.
You'll find a solution.
You are my solution.
My place is in the classroom.
Stop pretending this is about your
students.
It's so insulting.
Grace. we will lose a quarter of the
world's population in the next 30 years.
And that assumes that the nations of
the world work together to ration food.
which they won't.
So I double the estimate.
And if you would truly care about the
children or anyone else for that
matter. you'D get on that ship.
I understand the mistakes.
I do. but I don't have It in me.
My mind isn't made up.
I'm sorry. but... You just can't talk me
into It.
I'm not trying to talk you into anything.
I am trying to make you understand what
I'm about to do.
But It's all over. I'm not really that
What are you about to do next?
Yeah. please. stay calm.
Come in.
What is this?
Mission plan will state that we induced
your coma early to maximize your safety.
You will be remembered as a hero.
Come on. this is crazy.
I have to do It.
Come on. what are you doing?
This may seem like me betraying you.
but It's actually me believing in you.
Sure feels like you're betraying me.
Don't make this harder. please.
Let's keep talking about It.
Sit down and we do It differently.
I can't!
Yeah. he's running.
I can't do It!
Don't do It!
You know who you are.
You're gonna do great.
I'm trying to think if there's anything I
forgot.
Fuel tank fix okay?
Question?
Oh yeah. yeah. they're working great.
Oh good.
Happy. happy. happy.
Well?
My friend?
Yes. friend.
Not sure what to say. so just gonna...
Grace?
No one to watch you sleep?
Yeah.
You are very brave.
I don't know about that.
You are the bravest
human I have ever met.
Hey.
It's a joke.
I know.
I only meet one human.
And It's you.
I get It.
It's a good joke.
Good joke.
All right.
Well...
Goodbye.
No understand word.
And uh...
See you later.
But I won't see you later.
I know.
How do you say goodbye back home?
We don't.
We do this.
DEATH TO
DEATH EARTH
WILL TAKE FOUR YEARS. TWO MONTHS.
AND ELEVEN DAYS.
Thanks to life that
has given me so much
It gave me two lighters that when I open
them I perfectly distinguish
the black from the
white and in the high
sky I suppose I am a star.
In the crowds of the man that I love.
There's a leak.
The problem is the Xenonite.
The Tomeva can't get through It.
Probably because we brought It in the
Xenonite breeder tanks.
It evolved to escape It.
I was able to stop It before It ate all
the astrophage on the ship.
Rocky's ship is built of Xenonite.
The Tomeva will already be in its fuel
lines.
And he won't be able to find the leak
because the leak is the ship itself.
It will be without any fuel.
Stranded.
His life support systems will fail.
And if that doesn't kill him the radiation
sickness will.
He's looking at a long. slow. painful
death.
Alone.
I can't do both.
I can go home.
Or I can save Rocky.
I've sent you detailed logs of all of our
findings.
And enough Tomeva for you to start your
very own Tomeva farm.
At least I never have to hear you say.
I told you so.
Even though you were right.
We're spending time together.
We're living someone's modern day.
You and me Sunday driving.
Not arriving.
On our way back home.
We're on our way home.
We're going home.
It
Stretches out ahead.
Two of us wearing raincoats.
Standing so low in the sun.
You and me chasing paper.
Getting nowhere.
On our way back home.
We're on our way home.
We're going home.
I'm here. buddy.
Earth.
Rocky.
Hello. Earth.
I am Rocky.
I am Rocky from Aaron.
I am not Rocky from movie.
No. no. no. no.
I'm pretty sure they know that.
I left you detailed logs of all of our
findings.
And I threw in a little something else
just for fun.
Hopefully It all makes sense.
And if not. you're smart.
You'll figure It out.
This is Dr. Captain Ryland Grace reporting
from the Hail Mary.
As the Iridians say...
Let's begin.
Good morning. Armando.
You shouldn't have.
Why you always gotta be so early?
Yeah. I know.
And I ignored you.
Oh. yeah.
Okay.
Why?
I thought this was a safe neighborhood.
Okay.
Armando likes the fresh air.
Can we talk about the water temperature a
little bit?
It's amazing.
Just that you've done It at all.
Very cold.
And before. It was boiling.
Is there an in-between?
No.
Yeah.
Please tell the bio-dome illumination team
that It's perfect now.
Oh. no.
This is... You know
I'm a sucker for the fog.
The OPCA.
Can I think about It?
Oh.
Hey.
everyone take their seats.
Let's wake up.
Who can tell me the speed of light?
Uh.
Yeah.
Oh.
A little pause.
...
and we are back.